atus refers primarily to the presence or absence of the D antigen on RBCs.", "Incorrect. ABO antigens are separate from the Rh system.", "Incorrect. Rh-negative people do not naturally have anti-D antibodies but can form them after exposure to Rh-positive blood.", "Incorrect. Rh-negative patients can receive appropriately compatible blood products."], "teaching": "Teach that sensitization can occur after exposure to Rh-positive RBCs and that compatibility testing remains essential.", "dont": "Do not confuse Rh status with ABO type or assume Rh-negative means “no antigens.”", "further": "“Rh-negative means I already have antibodies against every Rh-positive cell.”", "source": "Chapter 27: Rh factor/D antigen"}, {"category": "Hemostasis & Coagulation", "type": "single", "stem": "A patient has endothelial injury. Platelets adhere to the damaged area and release clotting factors. Which pathway has been initiated?", "options": ["Intrinsic pathway", "Extrinsic pathway", "Lymphatic pathway", "Fibrinolytic pathway only"], "correct": [0], "explanations": ["Correct. Platelet adherence to damaged endothelium and release of clotting factors initiates the intrinsic pathway.", "Incorrect. The extrinsic pathway is initiated when blood vessel or surrounding tissues outside the blood are damaged.", "Incorrect. The lymphatic system does not initiate coagulation pathways.", "Incorrect. Fibrinolysis breaks down clots rather than initiating the coagulation cascade."], "teaching": "Explain that hemostasis depends on vascular spasm, platelet plug formation, and clotting factors producing fibrin.", "dont": "Do not assume normal platelet count guarantees normal coagulation; clotting-factor problems can still cause bleeding.", "further": "“If my platelet count is normal, my clotting factors cannot be abnormal.”", "source": "Chapter 27: platelet function and coagulation pathways"}, {"category": "Hematology Assessment", "type": "multi", "stem": "The nurse is assessing a patient for a possible hematologic disorder. Which findings should be recognized as potential evidence of abnormal bleeding? Select all that apply.", "options": ["Petechiae", "Ecchymoses", "Purpura", "Black, tarry stools", "Clubbing from chronic hypoxia"], "correct": [0, 1, 2, 3], "explanations": ["Correct. Petechiae are small hemorrhagic spots under the skin.", "Correct. Ecchymoses are larger areas of subcutaneous hemorrhage.", "Correct. Purpura reflects hemorrhage into skin, mucosa, or organs.", "Correct. Melena may indicate gastrointestinal bleeding and should be investigated.", "Incorrect. Clubbing can reflect long-term hypoxia but is not itself a bleeding manifestation."], "teaching": "Teach patients with bleeding risk to report new bruising, petechiae, hematuria, melena, gum/nose bleeding, or prolonged bleeding.", "dont": "Do not dismiss “small” skin changes in a thrombocytopenic or anticoagulated patient; they may be early clues to significant bleeding.", "further": "“Tiny red spots are harmless as long as I do not see active blood.”", "source": "Chapter 27: hematologic history and objective findings"}, {"category": "Hematology Assessment", "type": "single", "stem": "A patient reports fatigue, weight loss, and painless swelling in the neck. Which additional history is most important for the nurse to obtain because it may reveal hematologic/lymphatic risk?", "options": ["Occupational exposure to chemicals and solvents", "The brand of toothpaste used", "Whether the patient prefers showers or baths", "The side on which the patient sleeps"], "correct": [0], "explanations": ["Correct. Occupational exposures such as certain industrial chemicals can be associated with marrow dysfunction and hematologic malignancy.", "Incorrect. Toothpaste brand does not meaningfully assess hematologic risk.", "Incorrect. Bathing preference is not a major etiologic clue.", "Incorrect. Sleep position does not identify a hematologic exposure risk."], "teaching": "Ask about family history, medications/herbs, alcohol/drug use, diet, occupational/military exposures, bleeding, infections, and lymph-node changes.", "dont": "Do not limit the assessment to CBC results; the history may reveal hereditary, nutritional, medication, or toxic exposures.", "further": "“My job around industrial solvents is unrelated to my blood problem, so I do not need to mention it.”", "source": "Chapter 27: hematologic/lymphatic health history"}, {"category": "Laboratory Interpretation", "type": "single", "stem": "A female patient has Hgb 9.2 g/dL and Hct 30%. Which interpretation is most consistent with the chapter’s normal ranges?", "options": ["Both values are decreased and support anemia or blood loss", "Both values are elevated and suggest dehydration", "The hemoglobin is normal but hematocrit is high", "The results primarily indicate thrombocytopenia"], "correct": [0], "explanations": ["Correct. Female reference ranges in the chapter are approximately Hgb 11.7–15.5 g/dL and Hct 38%–44%; both values are low.", "Incorrect. Dehydration tends to increase hemoglobin/hematocrit by hemoconcentration.", "Incorrect. Both are below the listed normal female ranges.", "Incorrect. Platelet count, not Hgb/Hct, is used to identify thrombocytopenia."], "teaching": "Reinforce symptom reporting such as worsening dyspnea, dizziness, chest pain, palpitations, or increasing fatigue.", "dont": "Do not treat the number alone; assess hemodynamic stability, symptoms, trends, and the source of loss/production problem.", "further": "“Since my oxygen saturation is okay, a low hemoglobin cannot make me short of breath.”", "source": "Chapter 27: CBC normal values and significance"}, {"category": "Laboratory Interpretation", "type": "single", "stem": "A patient with fever has a WBC count of 15,000/mm³ and an increased neutrophil percentage. Which cause is most consistent with these findings?", "options": ["Bacterial infection or inflammation", "Isolated iron-deficiency anemia", "Vitamin B12 malabsorption only", "Platelet destruction from ITP"], "correct": [0], "explanations": ["Correct. Leukocytosis with increased neutrophils commonly accompanies bacterial infection and inflammation.", "Incorrect. Iron deficiency primarily affects RBC production and indices.", "Incorrect. B12 deficiency causes macrocytic anemia and neurologic findings, not a classic neutrophilic leukocytosis pattern.", "Incorrect. ITP primarily lowers platelets."], "teaching": "Teach the patient to report fever, chills, new drainage, cough, urinary symptoms, or other infection signs promptly when immune function is impaired.", "dont": "Do not assume a high total WBC means the cells are functional; some malignancies produce large numbers of ineffective immature WBCs.", "further": "“A high WBC count always means my immune system is strong.”", "source": "Chapter 27: WBC differential and abnormal findings"}, {"category": "Coagulation Studies", "type": "single", "stem": "A patient taking warfarin has an INR of 4.0. Which interpretation is most appropriate?", "options": ["The INR is above the usual 2.0–3.0 therapeutic range and the patient has increased bleeding risk", "The INR is below the therapeutic range and the dose should automatically be doubled", "The result evaluates heparin therapy rather than warfarin", "The result is normal for any patient who is not anticoagulated"], "correct": [0], "explanations": ["Correct. The chapter lists a usual warfarin therapeutic INR of 2.0–3.0; 4.0 is supratherapeutic for that target and raises bleeding risk.", "Incorrect. A higher INR reflects greater anticoagulant effect; dose changes require a prescriber/order and clinical assessment.", "Incorrect. aPTT is the primary test listed for heparin therapy.", "Incorrect. A normal INR for a non-anticoagulated patient is less than about 1.1 in the chapter."], "teaching": "Teach consistent vitamin K intake, medication/OTC interaction awareness, bleeding precautions, and the importance of scheduled INR monitoring.", "dont": "Do not independently change warfarin dosing or advise the patient to eliminate all vitamin K foods; dosing is managed to a target.", "further": "“If my INR is high, I should take an extra warfarin tablet to bring it down.”", "source": "Chapter 27: PT/INR and warfarin monitoring"}, {"category": "Coagulation Studies", "type": "single", "stem": "A patient receiving IV heparin has an aPTT well above the prescribed therapeutic target. What is the nurse’s priority interpretation?", "options": ["The patient may be over-anticoagulated and at increased risk for bleeding", "The patient is under-anticoagulated and should ambulate vigorously", "The value primarily measures platelet number", "The result confirms iron-deficiency anemia"], "correct": [0], "explanations": ["Correct. aPTT is used to monitor heparin effect; a value above the target suggests excessive anticoagulation and bleeding risk.", "Incorrect. A high aPTT indicates more, not less, anticoagulant effect.", "Incorrect. Platelet count measures platelet number; aPTT evaluates clotting-factor pathway activity.", "Incorrect. Iron deficiency is evaluated with CBC and iron studies."], "teaching": "Teach the patient to report bleeding, severe headache, dizziness, black stools, hematuria, or unusual bruising.", "dont": "Do not give IM injections or perform unnecessary invasive procedures in a significantly over-anticoagulated patient.", "further": "“A high aPTT means I need more heparin.”", "source": "Chapter 27: aPTT and heparin monitoring"}, {"category": "Blood Products", "type": "single", "stem": "A patient with severe symptomatic anemia and no evidence of a clotting-factor deficiency needs a blood component. Which product best targets the problem?", "options": ["Packed red blood cells", "Fresh frozen plasma", "Platelets", "Cryoprecipitate"], "correct": [0], "explanations": ["Correct. Packed RBCs increase red-cell mass and oxygen-carrying capacity in severe anemia or blood loss.", "Incorrect. Fresh frozen plasma primarily supplies clo