tting factors.", "Incorrect. Platelets are used for bleeding related to thrombocytopenia.", "Incorrect. Cryoprecipitate supplies specific clotting factors."], "teaching": "Explain the purpose of the ordered component, expected monitoring, and symptoms of transfusion reaction to report immediately.", "dont": "Do not assume whole blood is required for every anemia; component therapy targets the deficient element.", "further": "“Plasma is the best product to raise my hemoglobin.”", "source": "Chapter 27: blood product indications"}, {"category": "Blood Products", "type": "single", "stem": "A patient with active bleeding from severe thrombocytopenia is prescribed a transfusion. Which product is most directly indicated?", "options": ["Platelets", "Packed RBCs only", "Albumin", "Normal saline only"], "correct": [0], "explanations": ["Correct. Platelet transfusion replaces platelets when thrombocytopenia is causing clinically significant bleeding.", "Incorrect. RBCs may be needed if anemia/blood loss is severe, but they do not correct the platelet deficit.", "Incorrect. Albumin expands plasma volume in selected hypovolemic/hypoalbuminemic states.", "Incorrect. Saline supports volume but does not replace platelets."], "teaching": "Teach bleeding precautions and the need to report headache, neurologic changes, melena, hematuria, or persistent mucosal bleeding.", "dont": "Do not use rectal temperatures, IM injections, or unnecessary invasive procedures when platelet counts are dangerously low.", "further": "“Once I receive platelets, I can use aspirin for pain again without asking.”", "source": "Chapter 27: platelet transfusion and bleeding risk"}, {"category": "Transfusion Safety", "type": "single", "stem": "The nurse is preparing tubing for a packed RBC transfusion. Which IV solution is compatible with the blood product according to the chapter?", "options": ["0.9% normal saline", "Dextrose 5% in water", "Lactated Ringer solution", "A calcium-containing maintenance fluid"], "correct": [0], "explanations": ["Correct. Normal saline is the compatible solution used to prime/flush blood administration tubing.", "Incorrect. Dextrose-containing solutions can damage RBC membranes and cause hemolysis.", "Incorrect. Solutions containing calcium can promote clotting/clumping of blood products.", "Incorrect. Calcium-containing fluids should not be infused with blood through the same line."], "teaching": "Teach the patient that the nurse will use dedicated compatible tubing/solution and closely monitor for reactions.", "dont": "Do not mix medications or incompatible IV solutions into the blood tubing.", "further": "“Any clear IV fluid can run with blood because the blood is already in a bag.”", "source": "Chapter 27: blood transfusion fluid compatibility"}, {"category": "Transfusion Safety", "type": "single", "stem": "A unit of packed RBCs is released from the blood bank. Which action follows the chapter’s timing precautions?", "options": ["Begin the transfusion within 30 minutes and complete the unit within 4 hours", "Leave the unit at room temperature for 90 minutes before starting", "Infuse the unit over 8 hours to decrease reaction risk", "Start whenever convenient as long as the bag is unopened"], "correct": [0], "explanations": ["Correct. The chapter states blood should be started within 30 minutes of pickup and should not hang longer than 4 hours.", "Incorrect. Delaying at room temperature increases risk for deterioration/bacterial growth.", "Incorrect. Prolonging beyond 4 hours is unsafe.", "Incorrect. Timing begins when the product leaves controlled blood-bank storage, not when the bag is opened."], "teaching": "Tell the patient to report chills, itching, shortness of breath, chest/back pain, flushing, or feeling suddenly unwell immediately.", "dont": "Do not allow a unit to remain hanging beyond the permitted time or “save” a partially infused unit for later.", "further": "“If I feel chills, I should wait until the blood is finished to mention it.”", "source": "Chapter 27: transfusion timing precautions"}, {"category": "Transfusion Safety", "type": "single", "stem": "Fifteen minutes after a blood transfusion begins, the patient develops chills, dyspnea, and low back discomfort. What should the nurse do first?", "options": ["Stop the transfusion and maintain IV access with normal saline using new tubing per policy", "Increase the transfusion rate so the unit finishes sooner", "Give acetaminophen and continue the blood without notifying anyone", "Disconnect the IV entirely and remove access"], "correct": [0], "explanations": ["Correct. Suspected transfusion reaction requires immediate stopping of the blood; maintain venous access with compatible saline and follow reaction protocol/notify the appropriate clinician and blood bank.", "Incorrect. Continuing or increasing the transfusion exposes the patient to more of the suspected offending product.", "Incorrect. Treating symptoms while continuing the product delays recognition and worsens risk.", "Incorrect. IV access may be urgently needed for supportive treatment; it should be maintained with compatible solution."], "teaching": "Before transfusion, teach the patient which reaction symptoms must be reported immediately, even if they seem mild.", "dont": "Do not restart the same blood unit after a suspected reaction unless specifically directed under an approved protocol.", "further": "“Mild chills are expected, so I should not bother the nurse.”", "source": "Chapter 27: transfusion monitoring and reaction safety"}, {"category": "Diagnostic Procedures", "type": "single", "stem": "A patient returns from a bone marrow aspiration/biopsy. Which nursing action is most appropriate?", "options": ["Monitor the site for bleeding and infection and reinforce the dressing as indicated", "Massage the biopsy site vigorously to prevent hematoma", "Encourage the patient to scratch under the dressing if it itches", "Assume no monitoring is needed because bone marrow procedures cannot bleed"], "correct": [0], "explanations": ["Correct. Postprocedure care includes observing the site and reporting bleeding or infection.", "Incorrect. Vigorous massage can worsen bleeding and tissue trauma.", "Incorrect. Scratching can contaminate the site and disrupt the dressing.", "Incorrect. Invasive diagnostic procedures can cause bleeding, particularly in hematologic patients."], "teaching": "Teach the patient to report persistent bleeding, increasing pain, redness, warmth, drainage, or fever.", "dont": "Do not perform unnecessary pressure/trauma beyond ordered postprocedure care or ignore bleeding in a thrombocytopenic patient.", "further": "“If the site keeps oozing after I get home, I should just cover it and wait a few days.”", "source": "Chapter 27: bone marrow aspiration/biopsy nursing care"}, {"category": "Diagnostic Procedures", "type": "single", "stem": "A patient has a lymph node biopsy for persistent lymphadenopathy. Which discharge statement indicates correct understanding?", "options": ["“I will report bleeding, redness, drainage, swelling, or fever at the biopsy site.”", "“Painless drainage is normal and never needs to be reported.”", "“I should remove the dressing immediately and scrub the incision.”", "“A biopsy can only diagnose infection, not malignancy.”"], "correct": [0], "explanations": ["Correct. Bleeding and infection are key post-biopsy complications to monitor and report.", "Incorrect. Drainage can indicate infection or wound complication.", "Incorrect. The site should be cared for according to instructions; vigorous scrubbing can disrupt healing.", "Incorrect. Lymph node biopsy can help distinguish infection from malignancy."], "teaching": "Reinforce wound care, follow-up for pathology results, and symptoms that require prompt contact with the HCP.", "dont": "Do not provide false reassurance before pathology results are known.", "further": "“If the node was painless, the biopsy cannot show cancer.”", "source": "Chapter 27: lymph node biopsy"}, {"category": "Anemia", "type": "single", "stem": "A patient with iron-deficiency anemia asks how to take an oral iron supplement for best absorption. Which instruction is best?", "options": ["Take it between meals with water or a vitamin C-rich fluid if tolerated", "Take it with an antacid at the same time", "Take it only with dairy products", "Stop the drug when stools become dark"], "correct": [0], "explanations": ["Correct. Iron is best absorbed between meals, and vitamin C enhances absorption.", "Incorrect. Antacids can interfere with absorption and are not the preferred companion to iron.", "Incorrect. Dairy/calcium can reduce iron absorption.", "Incorrect. Dark stools are an expected effect of oral iron and are not, by themselves, a reason to stop therapy."], "teaching": "Teach that iron therapy may take months to replenish stores; discuss iron-rich foods and side effects such as constipation, nausea, diarrhea, and dark stools.", "dont": "Do not tell the patient to stop iron solely because stools become dark; assess for other signs if GI bleeding is suspected.", "further": "“I will take my iron with milk because calcium helps it absorb.”", "source": "Chapter 28: iron-deficiency anemia and iron therapy"}, {"category": "Anemia", "type": "single", "stem": "A patient with pernicious anemia has numbness in the feet and a beefy red tongue. Which long-term teaching is most important?", "options": ["Vitamin B12 replacement is required for life when intrinsic factor is deficient", "Oral iron alone will correct the neurologic problem", "Once the tongue heals, treatment can be stopped", "Folate alone reliably prevents the neurologic complications of B12 deficiency"], "correct": [0], "explanations": ["Correct. Pernicious anemia involves impaired B12 absorption due to lack of intrinsic factor, and the chapter teaches lifelong B12 injections.", "Incorrect. Iron does not replace vitamin B12 or correct B12-related neurologic dysfunction.", "Incorrect. 