Symptom improvement does not mean the absorption defect is cured.", "Incorrect. Folate can support blood formation but does not replace B12 for neurologic function."], "teaching": "Teach the reason for lifelong B12 therapy and the need to report worsening numbness, weakness, balance problems, or memory changes.", "dont": "Do not substitute folate for B12 in a patient with pernicious anemia and neurologic findings.", "further": "“When my blood count becomes normal, I can stop the B12 because the stomach will start making intrinsic factor again.”", "source": "Chapter 28: pernicious anemia, B12, intrinsic factor"}, {"category": "Anemia", "type": "single", "stem": "A patient with folate-deficiency anemia asks which foods can help increase folate intake. Which meal choice is most appropriate?", "options": ["Spinach, legumes, and fortified grains", "White rice, butter, and soda", "Cheese only with no vegetables or grains", "Processed meat with no fruits or vegetables"], "correct": [0], "explanations": ["Correct. Leafy vegetables, legumes, fruits, nuts, and fortified grains are listed folate sources.", "Incorrect. This meal is low in folate-rich foods.", "Incorrect. Dairy may contribute some nutrients but is not an adequate folate-focused plan by itself.", "Incorrect. A varied diet containing folate-rich plant foods and fortified grains is more appropriate."], "teaching": "Teach a balanced diet and reinforce that alcohol and some medications can interfere with folate absorption.", "dont": "Do not assume supplementation eliminates the need to address poor diet or excess alcohol intake.", "further": "“If I take folate pills, heavy alcohol use cannot affect my anemia.”", "source": "Chapter 28: folate-deficiency anemia and nutrition"}, {"category": "Anemia", "type": "single", "stem": "A patient with anemia has a resting pulse of 88/min. After walking to the bathroom, the pulse rises to 112/min and the patient becomes dyspneic. What is the nurse’s best action?", "options": ["Reduce activity and allow rest because the pulse rose more than 20% from baseline", "Encourage the patient to walk farther to build endurance immediately", "Document the finding as expected and take no action", "Place the patient flat and begin vigorous leg exercises"], "correct": [0], "explanations": ["Correct. The chapter recommends reducing activity when pulse or respiratory rate rises more than 20% from baseline because the activity is too strenuous.", "Incorrect. Pushing activity despite compensatory tachycardia and dyspnea can worsen tissue oxygen demand.", "Incorrect. The response should guide activity pacing and safety.", "Incorrect. Vigorous exercise increases oxygen demand."], "teaching": "Teach energy conservation, planned rest periods, gradual activity, and asking for assistance when dizzy or short of breath.", "dont": "Do not equate “activity is good” with forcing activity beyond cardiopulmonary tolerance.", "further": "“If my heart races when I walk, I should keep going until it slows down on its own.”", "source": "Chapter 28: nursing care for anemia and activity intolerance"}, {"category": "Aplastic Anemia", "type": "single", "stem": "A patient with aplastic anemia has pallor, petechiae, and recurrent infections. Which pathophysiology best explains the cluster of findings?", "options": ["Bone marrow failure causing pancytopenia", "Excess production of only RBCs", "Isolated destruction of platelets with normal WBC and RBC production", "Overproduction of mature, functional neutrophils"], "correct": [0], "explanations": ["Correct. Aplastic anemia causes fatty, poorly functioning marrow and reduced RBCs, WBCs, and platelets—pancytopenia.", "Incorrect. Excess RBC production describes polycythemia, not aplastic anemia.", "Incorrect. Isolated platelet destruction is more consistent with ITP.", "Incorrect. WBC production is reduced, increasing infection risk."], "teaching": "Teach why infection and bleeding precautions are both necessary and reinforce the need for CBC monitoring.", "dont": "Do not focus only on anemia symptoms; low WBCs and platelets create life-threatening infection and bleeding risks.", "further": "“Since this is called anemia, only my red cells are affected.”", "source": "Chapter 28: aplastic anemia and pancytopenia"}, {"category": "Bleeding Precautions", "type": "multi", "stem": "A patient with aplastic anemia has platelets of 16,000/mm³. Which interventions are appropriate? Select all that apply.", "options": ["Use an electric razor", "Use a soft toothbrush or gauze", "Avoid IM injections", "Avoid rectal temperatures and suppositories", "Use a firm-bristle toothbrush to stimulate the gums"], "correct": [0, 1, 2, 3], "explanations": ["Correct. An electric razor reduces skin-cut risk.", "Correct. Soft oral care reduces mucosal trauma.", "Correct. IM injections can cause deep tissue bleeding/hematoma.", "Correct. Rectal procedures can traumatize mucosa and cause bleeding.", "Incorrect. Firm bristles can injure gums and provoke bleeding."], "teaching": "Teach injury prevention, avoiding aspirin/NSAIDs unless approved, and prompt reporting of hematuria, melena, severe headache, or persistent bleeding.", "dont": "Do not perform avoidable invasive procedures or use rectal routes in severe thrombocytopenia.", "further": "“Flossing harder will keep my gums strong even when my platelets are very low.”", "source": "Chapter 28: Box 28.1 bleeding precautions"}, {"category": "Infection Precautions", "type": "multi", "stem": "A patient with severe leukopenia is being protected from infection. Which nursing actions are appropriate? Select all that apply.", "options": ["Perform meticulous hand hygiene", "Keep visitors with infections away", "Use strict aseptic technique for invasive procedures", "Teach the patient to avoid unwashed fruits and vegetables", "Encourage fresh flowers and potted plants in the room"], "correct": [0, 1, 2, 3], "explanations": ["Correct. Hand hygiene is a core infection-prevention measure.", "Correct. Ill visitors can expose the immunocompromised patient to pathogens.", "Correct. Asepsis reduces iatrogenic infection risk.", "Correct. Unwashed produce can carry pathogens.", "Incorrect. Plants/flowers can harbor microorganisms and are avoided in severe infection-risk states in the chapter."], "teaching": "Teach the patient to report even a slight temperature rise, redness, drainage, sore throat, cough, or urinary symptoms promptly.", "dont": "Do not wait for dramatic fever or pus; immunocompromised patients may have subtle infection signs.", "further": "“If I do not have a high fever, I cannot have an infection.”", "source": "Chapter 28: Box 28.2 infection precautions"}, {"category": "Sickle Cell Disease", "type": "multi", "stem": "Which situations can trigger or worsen a sickle cell crisis? Select all that apply.", "options": ["Dehydration", "Pneumonia or severe infection", "Cold exposure", "Strenuous exercise causing increased oxygen demand", "Adequate hydration and a warm environment"], "correct": [0, 1, 2, 3], "explanations": ["Correct. Dehydration increases blood viscosity and promotes sickling.", "Correct. Infection can lower oxygenation and precipitate crisis.", "Correct. Cold causes vasoconstriction and can worsen circulation.", "Correct. Strenuous exercise raises oxygen demand and can promote sickling.", "Incorrect. Hydration and warmth are protective measures rather than triggers."], "teaching": "Teach hydration, infection prevention, avoiding cold and smoking, avoiding strenuous exertion/hypoxic environments, and vaccination as prescribed.", "dont": "Do not recommend unpressurized air travel, mountain climbing, or cold exposure for a patient prone to hypoxia-triggered crises.", "further": "“When I am dehydrated, thicker blood helps keep the sickle cells from moving around.”", "source": "Chapter 28: sickle cell crisis triggers and prevention"}, {"category": "Sickle Cell Disease", "type": "single", "stem": "A patient in vaso-occlusive sickle cell crisis reports severe generalized pain and has dry mucous membranes with tachypnea. Which intervention is a priority component of supportive care?", "options": ["Administer prescribed IV/oral fluids and analgesia while supporting oxygenation", "Restrict fluids to prevent edema", "Apply ice packs to painful joints", "Encourage strenuous ambulation to improve circulation"], "correct": [0], "explanations": ["Correct. Acute crisis care includes aggressive hydration, pain control, oxygen for dyspnea/hypoxia, and treatment of precipitating infection.", "Incorrect. Fluid restriction can worsen viscosity and sickling unless another condition specifically requires it.", "Incorrect. Cold causes vasoconstriction and can worsen local sickling.", "Incorrect. Bed rest is encouraged during the acute phase to reduce oxygen demand."], "teaching": "Teach that rapid treatment of pain, dehydration, infection, and hypoxia reduces complications and that pain reports should be taken seriously.", "dont": "Do not undertreat pain or label severe vaso-occlusive pain as drug-seeking behavior.", "further": "“Ice is best because anything that makes the area numb must improve blood flow.”", "source": "Chapter 28: sickle cell crisis treatment"}, {"category": "Sickle Cell Disease", "type": "single", "stem": "A patient in sickle cell crisis asks for an ice pack for a painful knee. What is the best nursing response?", "options": ["Use warmth as ordered because cold can constrict vessels and worsen sickling", "Apply ice continuously for 2 hours", "Use a tight elastic wrap with ice to reduce circulation", "Lower the room temperature to decrease oxygen demand"], "correct": [0], "explanations": ["Correct. The chapter specifically recommends warm compresses and avoiding cold because vasoconstriction can trap more sickled cells.", "Incorrect. Prolonged cold exposure can worsen circulation.", "Incorrect. Restrictive compression plus cold can further impair perfusion.", "Incorrect. The room should be kept 