warm; cold exposure is a crisis trigger."], "teaching": "Teach the patient to avoid cold environments and to use warmth, hydration, and prescribed analgesia during pain episodes.", "dont": "Do not apply cold packs to vaso-occlusive pain unless a separate, clearly indicated condition requires it and the HCP directs it.", "further": "“Cold makes vessels smaller, so that should force the sickled cells through faster.”", "source": "Chapter 28: sickle cell perfusion interventions"}, {"category": "Sickle Cell Disease", "type": "single", "stem": "A patient in sickle cell crisis suddenly develops slurred speech and unilateral arm weakness. What is the nurse’s priority action?", "options": ["Treat this as an acute neurologic emergency and notify the appropriate emergency response/provider immediately", "Reassure the patient that neurologic symptoms are expected during pain crises", "Give the next scheduled oral iron dose", "Apply a cold compress to the weak arm"], "correct": [0], "explanations": ["Correct. Sickle-cell vaso-occlusion can cause cerebral thrombosis/stroke; new neurologic deficits require immediate escalation.", "Incorrect. Focal neurologic changes are not an expected benign finding.", "Incorrect. Iron does not treat acute cerebral vaso-occlusion.", "Incorrect. Cold can worsen vasoconstriction and does not address a suspected stroke."], "teaching": "Teach the patient/family to seek emergency care for weakness, facial droop, speech change, severe headache, confusion, or seizure.", "dont": "Do not delay neurologic assessment because the patient is already known to have sickle cell pain.", "further": "“A little one-sided weakness is just part of a usual crisis and can wait until morning.”", "source": "Chapter 28: sickle cell crisis neurologic monitoring"}, {"category": "Sickle Cell Disease", "type": "single", "stem": "A patient taking hydroxyurea for sickle cell disease says, “I do not feel different, so I will stop it.” Which response is best?", "options": ["Explain that benefits may take time and the medication can reduce crises, but it requires prescribed monitoring because serious adverse effects can occur", "Agree because hydroxyurea works only when pain is present", "Tell the patient to double the dose during the next crisis", "Explain that monitoring is unnecessary if the patient feels well"], "correct": [0], "explanations": ["Correct. Hydroxyurea can increase fetal hemoglobin and reduce complications, but benefits may not be immediately felt and therapy requires monitoring.", "Incorrect. It is a preventive disease-modifying therapy, not just an as-needed analgesic.", "Incorrect. Dosing should never be self-adjusted.", "Incorrect. Potential serious adverse effects make monitoring important."], "teaching": "Teach adherence, laboratory follow-up, and pregnancy-related precautions as directed by the prescriber.", "dont": "Do not encourage abrupt self-discontinuation or dose changes without discussing them with the HCP.", "further": "“If I cannot feel it working this week, there is no reason to keep taking it.”", "source": "Chapter 28: hydroxyurea in sickle cell disease"}, {"category": "Polycythemia Vera", "type": "single", "stem": "A patient with polycythemia vera reports headache, dizziness, pruritus, and a flushed complexion. Which therapy should the nurse expect as first-line treatment to reduce hyperviscosity?", "options": ["Therapeutic phlebotomy", "Routine platelet transfusions", "High-dose iron replacement", "Strict bed rest"], "correct": [0], "explanations": ["Correct. Phlebotomy removes blood to reduce RBC mass and hyperviscosity, with a goal hematocrit around 45% in the chapter.", "Incorrect. Platelets are already often elevated in PV and transfusion does not treat hyperviscosity.", "Incorrect. Repeated phlebotomy may intentionally lead to iron deficiency that helps limit RBC production.", "Incorrect. Ambulation is encouraged to reduce thrombosis risk when safe."], "teaching": "Explain the purpose of phlebotomy, hydration, mobility, and monitoring for thrombosis or bleeding.", "dont": "Do not prescribe iron supplements unless specifically ordered; they can counteract the desired reduction in RBC production.", "further": "“Phlebotomy is done because my platelet count is too low.”", "source": "Chapter 28: polycythemia vera treatment"}, {"category": "Polycythemia Vera", "type": "multi", "stem": "Which instructions are appropriate for a patient with polycythemia vera? Select all that apply.", "options": ["Drink about 3 L of water daily if not contraindicated", "Remain active and ambulatory as tolerated", "Avoid very hot or very cold environments", "Report chest pain or signs of thrombosis promptly", "Wear tight restrictive clothing to compress superficial veins"], "correct": [0, 1, 2, 3], "explanations": ["Correct. Hydration helps reduce blood viscosity.", "Correct. Activity supports circulation and lowers venous stasis risk.", "Correct. Temperature extremes can worsen circulation and pruritus.", "Correct. Thrombotic events are major complications and require prompt evaluation.", "Incorrect. Tight clothing can restrict circulation and is discouraged."], "teaching": "Teach smoking cessation, hydration, mobility, skin care for itching, and adherence to CBC/platelet monitoring and prescribed antiplatelet therapy.", "dont": "Do not ignore new chest pain, focal neurologic symptoms, unilateral swelling, or sudden dyspnea.", "further": "“Because my blood is thick, I should drink less water so I do not increase my blood volume.”", "source": "Chapter 28: polycythemia vera patient education"}, {"category": "Polycythemia Vera", "type": "single", "stem": "A patient with polycythemia vera suddenly reports chest pressure while walking in the hallway. What should the nurse instruct the patient to do first?", "options": ["Stop the activity and report the symptom immediately", "Continue walking to prevent a clot", "Take a hot shower to dilate vessels", "Drink an iron supplement and reassess in an hour"], "correct": [0], "explanations": ["Correct. The chapter specifically warns patients to stop activity at the first sign of chest pain and report symptoms of thrombosis.", "Incorrect. Continuing exertion during chest pain may worsen myocardial oxygen demand and delays evaluation.", "Incorrect. Hot environments are discouraged and do not treat a possible thrombotic event.", "Incorrect. Iron is not an acute treatment and may be undesirable in PV."], "teaching": "Teach emergency symptoms of arterial/venous thrombosis and the need for prompt medical evaluation.", "dont": "Do not attribute chest pain automatically to hyperviscosity without urgent assessment for ischemia or thrombosis.", "further": "“Chest pressure is expected with polycythemia, so I should finish my walk before telling anyone.”", "source": "Chapter 28: polycythemia complications"}, {"category": "DIC", "type": "single", "stem": "A septic patient begins oozing blood from IV sites and develops new petechiae and ecchymoses. Which complication should the nurse suspect first?", "options": ["Disseminated intravascular coagulation", "Iron-deficiency anemia only", "Pernicious anemia", "Stable chronic lymphadenopathy"], "correct": [0], "explanations": ["Correct. DIC can occur with overwhelming infection and is characterized by widespread clotting followed by consumption of platelets/clotting factors and severe bleeding.", "Incorrect. Iron deficiency does not typically cause acute diffuse oozing from puncture sites.", "Incorrect. Pernicious anemia causes B12-related anemia and neurologic/oral findings, not this acute coagulopathy.", "Incorrect. Lymphadenopathy does not explain acute multisite bleeding."], "teaching": "Explain to family that DIC is a secondary, life-threatening syndrome requiring treatment of the underlying cause plus aggressive supportive care.", "dont": "Do not wait for massive hemorrhage before escalating; early oozing, bruising, and petechiae are critical clues.", "further": "“Since the bleeding is only around the IV, it cannot be a whole-body clotting problem.”", "source": "Chapter 28: DIC recognition"}, {"category": "DIC", "type": "single", "stem": "Which laboratory pattern most strongly supports DIC?", "options": ["Prolonged PT/PTT, low fibrinogen, low platelets, elevated D-dimer/fibrin degradation products", "Short PT/PTT, high fibrinogen, high platelets, negative D-dimer", "Normal coagulation studies with isolated low vitamin B12", "High hemoglobin with normal platelets and low D-dimer"], "correct": [0], "explanations": ["Correct. Consumption of platelets and clotting factors prolongs clotting times and lowers fibrinogen/platelets, while fibrin breakdown products rise.", "Incorrect. This pattern is opposite of classic DIC findings.", "Incorrect. B12 deficiency does not produce the characteristic consumptive coagulopathy pattern.", "Incorrect. DIC commonly causes bleeding and RBC destruction rather than an isolated high hemoglobin."], "teaching": "Teach that frequent blood testing is needed to follow response to treatment and bleeding/clotting progression.", "dont": "Do not interpret a single lab in isolation; DIC is recognized by the pattern plus the clinical situation.", "further": "“A high D-dimer means my clotting factors are plentiful and working normally.”", "source": "Chapter 28: DIC laboratory abnormalities"}, {"category": "DIC", "type": "multi", "stem": "A patient with DIC has active bleeding and poor perfusion. Which therapies may be anticipated as supportive treatment? Select all that apply.", "options": ["Treat the underlying cause", "Oxygen and hydration", "Fresh frozen plasma", "Platelets or cryoprecipitate as ordered", "Repeated traumatic procedures to “check” whether bleeding has stopped"], "correct": [0, 1, 2, 3], "explanations": ["Correct. Reversing the cause is fundamental to stopping the DIC process.", "Correct. Oxygenation and volume support tissue perfusion.", "Correct. FFP can provide clotting factors and natural anticoa