gulants.", "Correct. Platelets and cryoprecipitate can support hemostasis when deficient.", "Incorrect. Additional trauma can provoke uncontrolled bleeding."], "teaching": "Explain the purpose of blood components and the need for frequent assessment of bleeding, perfusion, urine output, and vital signs.", "dont": "Do not dislodge clots, perform unnecessary sticks, or traumatize tissues in active DIC.", "further": "“The more blood draws I have, the faster the team can make the bleeding stop, so extra sticks are harmless.”", "source": "Chapter 28: DIC treatment and nursing management"}, {"category": "DIC", "type": "single", "stem": "While bathing a patient with DIC, the nurse notices a large new abdominal ecchymosis and oral bleeding. What is the best immediate nursing response?", "options": ["Stop unnecessary manipulation, assess vital signs/bleeding, and promptly notify the RN/HCP while maintaining bleeding precautions", "Massage the bruised area to disperse the blood", "Apply a heating pad and continue the bath without reporting it", "Perform a rectal temperature to check for infection"], "correct": [0], "explanations": ["Correct. New bleeding in DIC can progress rapidly; minimize trauma, assess hemodynamic status, and escalate promptly.", "Incorrect. Massage can disrupt clots and worsen hemorrhage.", "Incorrect. Heat and delayed reporting do not address a life-threatening bleed.", "Incorrect. Rectal procedures are contraindicated in major bleeding risk."], "teaching": "Teach family that bruising and bleeding may change quickly and that staff need to know immediately about any new site.", "dont": "Do not massage, probe, or repeatedly manipulate bleeding areas.", "further": "“If a bruise is not painful, it does not need to be reported.”", "source": "Chapter 28: DIC cue recognition and bleeding precautions"}, {"category": "ITP", "type": "single", "stem": "An adult with immune thrombocytopenic purpura has petechiae, gum bleeding, and a platelet count of 18,000/mm³. Which problem is the highest priority?", "options": ["Risk for spontaneous or life-threatening bleeding", "Risk for oxygen toxicity", "Risk for excess RBC production", "Risk for hyperviscosity from polycythemia"], "correct": [0], "explanations": ["Correct. Severe thrombocytopenia greatly increases bleeding risk, including possible intracranial hemorrhage.", "Incorrect. Oxygen toxicity is not the central problem.", "Incorrect. ITP affects platelets rather than causing RBC overproduction.", "Incorrect. Hyperviscosity is characteristic of polycythemia, not ITP."], "teaching": "Teach bleeding precautions and immediate reporting of severe headache, neurologic changes, blood in urine/stool, nose/gum bleeding, or increased vaginal bleeding.", "dont": "Do not give aspirin/NSAIDs or perform IM/rectal procedures unless specifically ordered and risk-assessed.", "further": "“Because I only see small red spots, I am not at risk for internal bleeding.”", "source": "Chapter 28: immune thrombocytopenic purpura"}, {"category": "ITP", "type": "single", "stem": "A patient with ITP asks why corticosteroids are prescribed. Which explanation is most accurate?", "options": ["They decrease immune activity that is destroying platelets", "They directly replace missing platelets", "They permanently cure every case of ITP", "They increase RBC sickling to stop bleeding"], "correct": [0], "explanations": ["Correct. Steroids can prolong platelet survival by reducing immune-mediated platelet destruction.", "Incorrect. Steroids do not transfuse or directly replace platelets.", "Incorrect. Some cases resolve, but steroids are not a guaranteed permanent cure.", "Incorrect. RBC sickling is unrelated to ITP treatment."], "teaching": "Teach the patient the purpose of therapy, need for platelet monitoring, and bleeding symptoms that require urgent attention.", "dont": "Do not reassure a patient with very low platelets that treatment removes all bleeding risk immediately.", "further": "“The steroid is giving me new platelets, so I cannot bleed while I am taking it.”", "source": "Chapter 28: ITP therapeutic measures"}, {"category": "Hemophilia", "type": "single", "stem": "A patient with hemophilia A asks which clotting factor is deficient. Which response is correct?", "options": ["Factor VIII", "Factor IX", "Factor X only", "Fibrinogen only"], "correct": [0], "explanations": ["Correct. Hemophilia A results from factor VIII deficiency.", "Incorrect. Factor IX deficiency causes hemophilia B.", "Incorrect. Hemophilia A is not defined by isolated factor X deficiency.", "Incorrect. Fibrinogen deficiency is not the defining defect in classic hemophilia A."], "teaching": "Teach the patient to know the specific factor deficiency, carry medical-alert identification, and plan factor coverage before procedures.", "dont": "Do not refer to all hemophilia as the same factor deficiency; treatment depends on the missing factor.", "further": "“Hemophilia A and B both mean factor VIII is missing.”", "source": "Chapter 28: hemophilia A and B"}, {"category": "Hemophilia", "type": "single", "stem": "A patient with hemophilia develops a swollen, painful knee after minor trauma. Which nursing intervention is most appropriate?", "options": ["Rest, ice, compression, and elevation while prescribed factor replacement is arranged", "Apply heat and encourage weight-bearing exercise", "Massage the joint deeply to break up pooled blood", "Give aspirin for inflammation"], "correct": [0], "explanations": ["Correct. The chapter recommends RICE for hemarthrosis/injury; factor replacement treats the clotting deficit.", "Incorrect. Heat and weight bearing can increase bleeding into the joint during an acute episode.", "Incorrect. Deep massage can worsen tissue bleeding.", "Incorrect. Aspirin increases bleeding risk; acetaminophen is safer for mild pain."], "teaching": "Teach early recognition of hemarthrosis, prompt factor treatment, joint protection, and when to seek emergency care.", "dont": "Do not delay treatment until obvious external bleeding appears; patients often recognize internal bleeding early.", "further": "“If there is no cut on the skin, the swollen joint cannot be bleeding.”", "source": "Chapter 28: hemophilia hemarthrosis and pain care"}, {"category": "Hemophilia", "type": "multi", "stem": "Which actions should the nurse avoid for a patient with severe hemophilia unless specifically required and risk-managed? Select all that apply.", "options": ["Intramuscular injections", "Rectal medications or temperatures", "Aspirin or NSAIDs for routine pain", "Unplanned dental procedures without factor coverage", "Medical-alert identification"], "correct": [0, 1, 2, 3], "explanations": ["Correct. IM injections can cause deep hematomas.", "Correct. Rectal routes can traumatize tissue and provoke bleeding.", "Correct. Aspirin/NSAIDs increase bleeding risk.", "Correct. Invasive procedures require preventive planning and factor replacement.", "Incorrect. Medical-alert identification is recommended for safety."], "teaching": "Teach safe pain options, factor-replacement plans, injury prevention, and emergency evaluation for significant bleeding or trauma.", "dont": "Do not give IM, subcutaneous, or rectal medications casually in severe hemophilia; verify the prescribed plan.", "further": "“A dental extraction is minor, so I do not need to tell the dentist about my hemophilia.”", "source": "Chapter 28: hemophilia bleeding precautions"}, {"category": "Leukemia", "type": "single", "stem": "A patient with leukemia has a WBC count of 85,000/mm³ yet develops recurrent severe infections. Which explanation is best?", "options": ["Many circulating WBCs are immature abnormal cells that cannot fight infection effectively", "A high WBC count always means the patient is allergic to antibiotics", "The RBCs are destroying all mature neutrophils", "Platelets are converting into nonfunctional WBCs"], "correct": [0], "explanations": ["Correct. Leukemia can produce enormous numbers of blast cells while leaving too few mature functional WBCs for host defense.", "Incorrect. The infection risk is due to ineffective leukemic cells and marrow failure, not antibiotic allergy.", "Incorrect. RBCs do not destroy neutrophils as the basic leukemia mechanism.", "Incorrect. Platelets do not convert into WBCs."], "teaching": "Teach that infection precautions remain essential even when the total WBC count is high.", "dont": "Do not interpret leukocytosis in leukemia as proof of effective immunity.", "further": "“My WBC count is very high, so visitors with colds cannot hurt me.”", "source": "Chapter 28: leukemia pathophysiology"}, {"category": "Leukemia", "type": "single", "stem": "A patient has fever, petechiae, anemia, and circulating abnormal WBCs. Which test confirms leukemia by showing malignant WBC proliferation in marrow?", "options": ["Bone marrow aspiration", "Routine urinalysis alone", "Stool occult blood test", "Barium swallow"], "correct": [0], "explanations": ["Correct. The chapter identifies bone marrow aspiration as the test that confirms the degree of malignant WBC proliferation.", "Incorrect. Urinalysis does not confirm leukemia.", "Incorrect. Stool occult blood detects GI bleeding, not marrow malignancy.", "Incorrect. Barium swallow evaluates upper GI structure and motility."], "teaching": "Explain the purpose of marrow testing and reinforce postprocedure site monitoring for bleeding/infection.", "dont": "Do not tell the patient that a CBC alone always definitively confirms the leukemia subtype and marrow involvement.", "further": "“Since my CBC is abnormal, there is no reason for a bone marrow test.”", "source": "Chapter 28: leukemia diagnostic tests"}, {"category": "Leukemia", "type": "single", "stem": "A patient starting induction chemotherapy says, “Why am I getting such intense treatment when I already feel sick?” Which response is best?", "options": ["Induction uses aggressive chemotherapy to achieve remission by eliminating leukemic cell