s from the marrow", "Induction is only comfort care and does not target leukemia", "Induction is the final maintenance phase after years of remission", "The purpose is to raise the platelet count without affecting leukemic cells"], "correct": [0], "explanations": ["Correct. Induction is the initial intensive phase aimed at achieving remission.", "Incorrect. The treatment is disease-directed, not only palliative.", "Incorrect. Maintenance comes after induction and consolidation.", "Incorrect. Chemotherapy targets leukemic cells and can temporarily worsen pancytopenia rather than simply raise platelets."], "teaching": "Prepare the patient for treatment-related fatigue, infection/bleeding risks, mouth care, nutrition needs, and emotional support.", "dont": "Do not imply that feeling worse during induction means the treatment is failing.", "further": "“If chemotherapy makes my counts worse at first, it means the leukemia is winning and the drugs should be stopped.”", "source": "Chapter 28: leukemia induction, consolidation, maintenance"}, {"category": "Leukemia", "type": "multi", "stem": "A patient receiving high-dose chemotherapy for leukemia is severely neutropenic. Which room-care actions are appropriate? Select all that apply.", "options": ["Limit exposure to visitors with infections", "Perform hand hygiene before contact", "Report even a slight temperature increase", "Avoid fresh flowers/plants and unwashed produce", "Allow a coughing visitor to stay if a mask is worn loosely"], "correct": [0, 1, 2, 3], "explanations": ["Correct. Sick contacts can be dangerous to a neutropenic patient.", "Correct. Hand hygiene reduces pathogen transmission.", "Correct. Infection signs may be subtle; a small temperature rise may be clinically important.", "Correct. The chapter recommends avoiding flowers/plants and unwashed produce in high-risk patients.", "Incorrect. A symptomatic visitor should not be in the room."], "teaching": "Teach family infection precautions and why the patient may not mount a dramatic fever or inflammatory response.", "dont": "Do not crowd the room with visitors during profound immunosuppression, especially anyone with infectious symptoms.", "further": "“Because I may not get a high fever, I can wait a few days before reporting a temperature change.”", "source": "Chapter 28: leukemia infection precautions"}, {"category": "Leukemia", "type": "single", "stem": "A thrombocytopenic patient with leukemia has painful oral mucositis. Which mouth-care plan is safest?", "options": ["Use a soft toothbrush or sponge swab and avoid irritating commercial mouthwash", "Use a hard toothbrush to remove plaque aggressively", "Use lemon-glycerin swabs every hour", "Floss vigorously after each meal"], "correct": [0], "explanations": ["Correct. Gentle oral care reduces infection while minimizing mucosal trauma and bleeding.", "Incorrect. Hard bristles can cause bleeding.", "Incorrect. Lemon-glycerin swabs dry and irritate oral mucosa.", "Incorrect. Vigorous flossing increases bleeding risk when platelets are low."], "teaching": "Teach frequent gentle mouth care, hydration, nonirritating foods, and reporting ulcers, bleeding, or inability to eat/drink.", "dont": "Do not use alcohol-containing mouthwash, smoking, acidic foods, or very hot/cold foods when mucosa is inflamed.", "further": "“If my gums bleed, I should brush harder so they toughen up.”", "source": "Chapter 28: leukemia oral mucous membrane care"}, {"category": "Leukemia", "type": "single", "stem": "A patient with leukemia says fatigue is preventing participation in a child’s wedding next month. Which nursing approach is most patient-centered?", "options": ["Help identify the personally important activity and plan energy conservation/rest to support that goal", "Tell the patient all activity should stop until treatment is finished", "Focus only on the laboratory values and avoid discussing goals", "Encourage the patient to ignore fatigue and practice staying awake all day"], "correct": [0], "explanations": ["Correct. The chapter emphasizes identifying meaningful activities and pacing care/rest around patient priorities.", "Incorrect. Complete inactivity can worsen deconditioning and does not honor the patient’s goals.", "Incorrect. Patient-centered care includes functional priorities, not just lab results.", "Incorrect. Ignoring fatigue can worsen symptoms and reduce function."], "teaching": "Teach pacing, rest between activities, adequate nutrition/sleep, and asking for help with lower-priority tasks.", "dont": "Do not equate independence with doing everything alone; conserving energy for valued activities is appropriate nursing care.", "further": "“I should spend my limited energy on chores first, even if it means missing the event that matters most to me.”", "source": "Chapter 28: leukemia fatigue management"}, {"category": "Multiple Myeloma", "type": "single", "stem": "A patient with multiple myeloma has nausea, confusion, weakness, and calcium 12.4 mg/dL. Which complication is the nurse most concerned about?", "options": ["Hypercalcemia from bone destruction", "Iron-deficiency anemia from low dietary iron only", "Acute ITP", "Isolated vitamin B12 deficiency"], "correct": [0], "explanations": ["Correct. Myeloma causes bone destruction that can release calcium, producing hypercalcemia with GI, neurologic, and renal effects.", "Incorrect. Anemia may occur in myeloma, but the elevated calcium and confusion point to hypercalcemia.", "Incorrect. ITP is an immune platelet disorder.", "Incorrect. B12 deficiency does not explain markedly elevated calcium."], "teaching": "Teach hydration as prescribed, symptoms of hypercalcemia, and the need for renal and calcium monitoring.", "dont": "Do not encourage calcium supplements unless specifically ordered in a patient already at risk for hypercalcemia.", "further": "“Confusion is unrelated to calcium, so I do not need to report it.”", "source": "Chapter 28: multiple myeloma hypercalcemia"}, {"category": "Multiple Myeloma", "type": "single", "stem": "A patient with multiple myeloma develops new severe back pain, leg weakness, and loss of bladder control. What is the nurse’s priority action?", "options": ["Report immediately as possible spinal cord compression", "Encourage the patient to walk independently to test strength", "Apply deep massage to the spine", "Reassure the patient that this is expected bone pain"], "correct": [0], "explanations": ["Correct. Back pain with leg weakness/sensory or bowel-bladder changes may indicate spinal cord compression and requires urgent intervention.", "Incorrect. Unassisted ambulation could cause a fall or fracture and delays emergency evaluation.", "Incorrect. Manipulation can injure fragile bones.", "Incorrect. These neurologic changes are red flags, not routine pain."], "teaching": "Teach the patient to report new weakness, numbness, gait changes, or bowel/bladder dysfunction immediately.", "dont": "Do not lift, twist, or manipulate the patient roughly because myeloma weakens bones and increases pathologic fracture risk.", "further": "“If I can still move one leg, bladder loss can wait until my next appointment.”", "source": "Chapter 28: multiple myeloma spinal cord compression warning signs"}, {"category": "Multiple Myeloma", "type": "multi", "stem": "Which nursing interventions help reduce complications in a patient with multiple myeloma and fragile bones? Select all that apply.", "options": ["Assist with ambulation and use support devices as needed", "Use a lift sheet for gentle repositioning", "Maintain hydration as prescribed to support renal clearance", "Monitor BUN/creatinine and urine output", "Encourage forceful passive range-of-motion through pain"], "correct": [0, 1, 2, 3], "explanations": ["Correct. Assisted mobility helps prevent falls while maintaining bone use.", "Correct. A lift sheet reduces shear and fracture risk during repositioning.", "Correct. Hydration helps reduce hypercalcemia-related renal complications and stone formation.", "Correct. Renal failure is a major complication and must be monitored.", "Incorrect. Forceful ROM can fracture weakened bones."], "teaching": "Teach fall prevention, safe mobility, hydration goals, and when to report bone pain or neurologic changes.", "dont": "Do not manually lift or twist a patient with severe skeletal involvement without appropriate equipment/help.", "further": "“Because movement strengthens bones, I should push through sharp bone pain without assistance.”", "source": "Chapter 28: multiple myeloma injury prevention"}, {"category": "Hodgkin Lymphoma", "type": "single", "stem": "A patient has painless cervical lymphadenopathy, night sweats, and weight loss. Which finding on biopsy confirms Hodgkin lymphoma?", "options": ["Reed–Sternberg cells", "Sickle-shaped RBCs", "Bence–Jones protein only", "Absent factor VIII"], "correct": [0], "explanations": ["Correct. Reed–Sternberg cells are the distinguishing pathologic feature of Hodgkin lymphoma.", "Incorrect. Sickled RBCs are associated with sickle cell disease.", "Incorrect. Bence–Jones proteins are associated with multiple myeloma.", "Incorrect. Factor VIII deficiency causes hemophilia A."], "teaching": "Teach the patient the purpose of lymph-node biopsy and staging studies and discuss treatment-related infection/fatigue precautions.", "dont": "Do not promise a diagnosis based solely on the feel or size of the lymph node; tissue diagnosis is required.", "further": "“Because the node does not hurt, it cannot be cancer.”", "source": "Chapter 28: Hodgkin lymphoma diagnosis"}, {"category": "Hodgkin Lymphoma", "type": "single", "stem": "A patient with known Hodgkin lymphoma develops stridor and increasing difficulty swallowing. What is the nurse’s priority concern?", "options": ["Airway obstruction from enlarged nodes in the neck/upper chest", "Expected benign itching only", "Iron-deficiency anemia without airway risk", "Routine post-biopsy soreness"], "correct": [0], "explanat