: "Do not dismiss new diarrhea as a harmless medication side effect when C. difficile risk factors and systemic symptoms are present.", "further": "“Antibiotic-related diarrhea is never dangerous, so I can wait several days before telling anyone.”", "source": "Chapter 32: C. difficile risk recognition"}, {"category": "GI Assessment", "type": "single", "stem": "A patient with several days of vomiting has a dry furrowed tongue and poor skin turgor. Which interpretation is most appropriate?", "options": ["The findings suggest dehydration", "The findings confirm polycythemia vera", "The findings indicate increased total body fluid", "The findings are specific for hemophilia"], "correct": [0], "explanations": ["Correct. A dry cracked/furrowed tongue and tenting/poor turgor are findings associated with dehydration.", "Incorrect. Polycythemia can involve hyperviscosity but does not specifically explain this acute fluid-loss assessment.", "Incorrect. These are fluid-deficit, not fluid-excess, clues.", "Incorrect. Hemophilia causes bleeding risk rather than dehydration signs."], "teaching": "Teach oral/IV fluid replacement as prescribed and symptoms of worsening dehydration such as dizziness, low urine output, tachycardia, or confusion.", "dont": "Do not rely on a single sign; combine mucous membranes, intake/output, weight, vital signs, labs, and clinical context.", "further": "“If my mouth is dry but I am still urinating a little, dehydration is impossible.”", "source": "Chapter 32: objective GI/nutritional assessment"}, {"category": "Liver Function", "type": "single", "stem": "A patient with advanced liver dysfunction bruises easily and has prolonged PT. Which liver function best explains the bleeding tendency?", "options": ["Synthesis of clotting factors such as prothrombin and fibrinogen", "Storage of bile in the gallbladder", "Production of pancreatic lipase", "Absorption of vitamin B12 in the ileum"], "correct": [0], "explanations": ["Correct. The liver synthesizes clotting factors; impaired synthesis can prolong clotting and increase bleeding.", "Incorrect. The gallbladder stores bile but does not synthesize clotting factors.", "Incorrect. Pancreatic lipase is produced by the pancreas and digests fats.", "Incorrect. B12 absorption occurs in the ileum and depends on intrinsic factor, but this does not directly explain prolonged PT from liver failure."], "teaching": "Teach bleeding precautions, medication safety, and the importance of reporting black stools, hematemesis, hematuria, or unusual bruising.", "dont": "Do not give hepatotoxic or bleeding-risk medications casually in significant liver disease without reviewing orders and labs.", "further": "“My liver only makes bile, so it cannot affect how my blood clots.”", "source": "Chapter 32: liver synthesis of plasma proteins/clotting factors"}, {"category": "Pancreatic/Liver Labs", "type": "single", "stem": "A patient with severe epigastric pain has a lipase level well above the chapter’s adult reference range. Which organ is most directly implicated?", "options": ["Pancreas", "Spleen only", "Thyroid", "Bone marrow"], "correct": [0], "explanations": ["Correct. Lipase is a digestive enzyme mainly secreted by the pancreas and rises with pancreatic injury, especially pancreatitis.", "Incorrect. The spleen is not the primary source of lipase.", "Incorrect. Thyroid function is not assessed with lipase.", "Incorrect. Bone marrow disorders are evaluated with blood counts and marrow studies, not lipase."], "teaching": "Teach the patient that pancreatic enzymes and other labs are interpreted with symptoms and imaging, not in isolation.", "dont": "Do not label all abdominal pain pancreatitis solely from one lab value; assess the full clinical picture.", "further": "“Lipase is a blood-cell test, so a high value means my white count is elevated.”", "source": "Chapter 32: lipase laboratory interpretation"}, {"category": "Hepatobiliary Labs", "type": "single", "stem": "A patient has jaundice and suspected gallstone obstruction. Which laboratory change is most consistent with biliary obstruction in the chapter?", "options": ["Elevated conjugated (direct) bilirubin", "Markedly decreased bilirubin to zero", "Isolated low platelet count with normal bilirubin", "Low hemoglobin as the only abnormality"], "correct": [0], "explanations": ["Correct. Conjugated/direct bilirubin rises with gallstones and gallbladder/biliary obstruction.", "Incorrect. Obstruction tends to increase bilirubin rather than eliminate it.", "Incorrect. Platelets may change in liver disease, but they do not specifically identify bile-duct obstruction.", "Incorrect. Anemia alone does not establish biliary obstruction."], "teaching": "Teach the patient to report fever/chills, worsening RUQ pain, pale stools, dark urine, or increasing jaundice.", "dont": "Do not assume jaundice is always from RBC destruction; liver damage and bile-duct obstruction are also key causes.", "further": "“Direct bilirubin cannot rise from a blocked bile duct because bilirubin is only related to blood cells.”", "source": "Chapter 32: bilirubin fractions and obstruction"}, {"category": "GI Diagnostics", "type": "single", "stem": "A patient returns from an EGD and asks for water. The throat is still numb and the gag reflex is absent. What should the nurse do?", "options": ["Keep the patient NPO until swallow and gag reflexes return", "Give water through a straw slowly", "Offer ice chips because they cannot be aspirated", "Give a sandwich to test swallowing"], "correct": [0], "explanations": ["Correct. Oral intake is withheld until protective swallowing/gag reflexes return to prevent aspiration.", "Incorrect. A straw does not remove aspiration risk when protective reflexes are absent.", "Incorrect. Ice chips can also be aspirated.", "Incorrect. Solid food is unsafe before reflexes return."], "teaching": "Teach that temporary throat numbness/soreness can occur and explain why oral intake is delayed.", "dont": "Do not delegate oral intake to an assistive person without first verifying the patient is safe to swallow.", "further": "“If I am awake, my gag reflex must already be normal.”", "source": "Chapter 32: post-EGD care and cue recognition"}, {"category": "GI Diagnostics", "type": "single", "stem": "After ERCP, which new finding requires prompt reporting because it can indicate pancreatitis, infection, or perforation?", "options": ["Increasing right upper quadrant/epigastric pain with tachycardia, nausea, or fever", "Mild temporary sore throat only", "Passing flatus after the procedure", "Feeling sleepy from sedation while vital signs remain stable and arousable"], "correct": [0], "explanations": ["Correct. The chapter warns to report increasing pain, fever/chills, hypotension/tachycardia, nausea, or vomiting after ERCP because pancreatitis, infection, or perforation can occur.", "Incorrect. A mild sore throat/hoarseness may occur after upper endoscopy.", "Incorrect. Passing flatus is not a typical sign of ERCP perforation.", "Incorrect. Expected sedation effects are less concerning when the patient is stable and appropriately monitored."], "teaching": "Teach the patient to seek help for increasing abdominal/RUQ pain, fever, chills, vomiting, rapid pulse, or dizziness after discharge.", "dont": "Do not dismiss worsening abdominal pain as routine “gas” after ERCP.", "further": "“Severe increasing abdominal pain after ERCP is expected and should not be reported.”", "source": "Chapter 32: ERCP complications and teaching"}, {"category": "GI Diagnostics", "type": "single", "stem": "A patient is discharged after a colonoscopy with polypectomy. Which statement shows correct understanding?", "options": ["“I will report severe abdominal pain, heavy bleeding, or fever.”", "“Heavy rectal bleeding is expected after a polyp is removed.”", "“I should avoid telling anyone about dizziness after the procedure.”", "“Severe pain means I need to eat a large meal immediately.”"], "correct": [0], "explanations": ["Correct. Severe pain, heavy bleeding, or fever can indicate perforation or hemorrhage and require prompt evaluation.", "Incorrect. Small blood traces may occur after biopsy, but heavy bleeding is not expected.", "Incorrect. Dizziness may reflect hypotension, bleeding, or sedation effects and should be assessed.", "Incorrect. Severe pain is a warning sign, not a cue to eat."], "teaching": "Teach expected temporary flatus/cramping versus red-flag symptoms, and reinforce post-sedation safety instructions.", "dont": "Do not normalize heavy bleeding, fever, or escalating abdominal pain after lower-GI endoscopy.", "further": "“Because a biopsy was taken, any amount of blood in the toilet is normal.”", "source": "Chapter 32: colonoscopy postprocedure care"}, {"category": "GI Diagnostics", "type": "single", "stem": "A patient is scheduled for a percutaneous liver biopsy. Which preprocedure data are most important to verify?", "options": ["Signed consent plus CBC and coagulation studies", "A normal hearing test and visual acuity exam", "A negative stool culture only", "A reticulocyte count only"], "correct": [0], "explanations": ["Correct. The chapter specifies consent and review of CBC/coagulation studies because liver biopsy can cause bleeding.", "Incorrect. Hearing and vision are not the key safety studies for this invasive procedure.", "Incorrect. Stool culture does not assess bleeding risk.", "Incorrect. Reticulocytes alone do not establish procedural hemostatic safety."], "teaching": "Teach the patient why bleeding risk is assessed and what post-biopsy symptoms to report.", "dont": "Do not proceed casually with an invasive liver biopsy when coagulation results are significantly abnormal without provider review.", "further": "“Because the liver is not a blood-forming organ, bleeding tests are unnecessary before a liver biopsy.”", "source": "Chapter 32: percutaneous liver biopsy nursing management"}, {"category": "Radiographic GI Tests", "type": "single", 